In the last video, we wrote out some scaffolding for the app component, and then I very abruptly ended
the video saying, Oh yeah, I get initial props.
This time round is going to be slightly different or kind of that there was something different this
time around.
So remember at this point we've been talking about get initial props as it has been implemented inside
of our different pages.
We are not technically working in a page right now.
Instead, we are working inside of a custom app component that's going to wrap up a page.
Unfortunately, this is kind of a tough thing to keep in the back of your mind when you're making use
of next.
Just the arguments that are provided to the get initial props function for a page are different than
the arguments that are provided to get initial props for the custom app component.
So as we just saw inside of a page component, our first argument is some kind of context object.
And inside there was that rec property.
That was the request and that was the property that we cared a lot about because it had that set of
headers that was coming into our application from the user's browser.
So we really want to make sure that we got access to that rec property so we could use it to eventually
build up our Axios client.
When we are defining the JIT initial function for a custom app component.
However, the rec object is a little bit nested inside of that first argument.
So again, the first argument is different between these two types of things.
It's I know kind of a nasty thing, but that's life.
That's just how the authors of Next decided to put this stuff together.
So rather than that first argument just being a plain object that has the rec property right directly
on it, instead the wreck object is nested on this x property.
Ctcs being short for context.
Let's do a quick console log here just to kind of verify that this is the case.
So inside of get initial props, I'm going to receive this first argument that we're going to refer
to as app context, just to kind of clarify and make it a little bit more obvious that this context
right here is different than a context inside of that landing pages get initial props.
Now this app context, if we did a console log of it directly, we would get a ton of information because
there's a ton of different properties nested inside there.
So just to make this thing a little bit easier to read, I'm going to only print out the keys of that
object.
To do so, I'll do a console log of object keys on app context and then go into return an empty object.
Okay, let's save this.
I'm going to go back over my browser and do a hard refresh the page.
Now, after refreshing this page, if it says that you are not signed in, even though you might be
really, really, really sure that you are signed in, that is okay.
And then going to go over to my terminal and now I can see the keys console.log right there.
So again, on this app context thing, we get app three component router and Ctcs and ctcs is what we
really care about because nested on there is still going to be that same.
Wreck property that we want to pass off to our build client function.
All right.
So again, that was why we kind of abruptly pause the video.
It was just so we understood that we have to adjust how we call build client this time around.
So long story short, here's what we're going to do.
We're still going to build up a client calling build client.
But this time around, because we are inside of this custom app component, we're going to instead pass
in app context dot KCTCS.
That's pretty much it.
Once we've got the client put together, we can still use it as usual to attempt to fetch some data.
So for example I can still do a data is a weight client get.
To API users aren't user.
And then I can still just return that data.
I'm going to make sure I mark the enclosing function as a sync.
And then for right now, just to make sure that we are executing this function and successfully making
this call, let's just do a console log of data right here.
Unfortunately, this awkwardness around app context is not the only thing we're going to have to kind
of struggle with here.
So you're going to notice that the application when we refresh it, is not going to really work as expected.
Right now, I really just want to verify that we are fetching some data and console logging it out.
Okay, let's save this.
I'm going to once again flip back over to my browser, do a hard refresh to the page.
I'll then go back over to my terminal and I should see a console log of current user right there.
Okay, so we're definitely able to fetch the current user.
That's good at least.
So now.
Let's go back over to our index file.
So we've now got a get initial props in two locations.
We have one for our landing page and one for our custom app component.
I want to do just a quick test here.
Back inside of the landing pages.
Get initial props.
I'm going to put a console log inside of here of landing page like so.
I'll then save this.
And then going to refresh my browser once again.
And then go over to my terminal.
And when I do say you'll notice that we do not have a console log from the landing pages, get initial
props function anymore.
So this is another kind of little awkward thing around the edges.
And this is kind of what I was alluding to back on that diagram really quick.
Back over here.
I'm sorry.
I know I'm clicking around a ton very quickly.
So I told you that when we define a get initial props for the app component, we still need to make
sure that we can have a get initial props tied to an individual page.
So unfortunately, when we tie get initial props to app component, you get initial functions that we
tie to an individual page do not get automatically invoked anymore.
So the reason that we just added in a console log inside of the landing page, get initial props was
just show you that because we just added one to the custom page.
Now this old one not getting called anymore.
Yeah, I know.
Next is just a little bit awkward sometimes.
You know, it's it's a great framework.
And right now you might be thinking, wow, this is like a lot of work.
Stephen And why are we going through these really intricate steps here just to figure out how to use
server side rendering on a microservices course?
I know this is starting to get really off topic.
But trust me, I really wanted to cover some aspect of server side rendering this course.
And if we had tried to do all this stuff by hand, we would have been in ten times a world of hurt and
it would have all been ten times harder.
So I know that we're running into some awkward challenges here, but trust me, we're almost through
it.
Let's just stick together a little bit longer.
Okay.
So again, our whole issue here, we definitely need to be able to run, get initial props from both
locations.
But as soon as we added it into this new custom app component, our second one or the original one,
stop getting invoked.
So quick pause right here.
We'll figure out how to fix this in just a moment.